{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg949\cocoartf2821
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular_wdth_opsz1D4000_GRAD_wght1F40000;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f4\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Italic;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red85\green89\blue96;\red255\green255\blue255;
\red120\green122\blue126;\red224\green0\blue10;\red146\green148\blue153;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0\c94902;\cssrgb\c40784\c42353\c45098;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
\cssrgb\c54510\c55294\c56863;\cssrgb\c91373\c2353\c2353;\cssrgb\c63922\c64706\c66275;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20200\viewh13940\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs58\fsmilli29250 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \'91He\'92s at the Apex of Power Now\'92: A Preview of Trump\'92s Second Term\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs24 \AppleTypeServices \cf3 \strokec3  
\f2\b0\fs19\fsmilli9756 \cf2 \cb4 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs18 \cf5 \cb1 \strokec5 BY\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://time.com/author/eric-cortellessa/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1\b \cf6 \strokec6 ERIC CORTELLESSA}}\
JANUARY 20, 2025 12:05 PM EST\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs25\fsmilli12750 \cf2 \strokec2 One by one
\f2\b0 , they had all trickled into the walnut-paneled\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.senate.gov/about/historic-buildings-spaces/rooms/mansfield-room.htm"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \strokec6 Mansfield Room}}.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://time.com/7200212/person-of-the-year-2024-donald-trump/"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \strokec6 Donald Trump}}\'a0had just made another improbable return: his first visit to the U.S. Capitol since a mob of his supporters stormed the building on Jan. 6, 2021. Now, just days away from reclaiming power, the\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://time.com/7173338/donald-trump-wins-election-2024/"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \strokec6 President-elect}}\'a0was there to meet with the 52 Republican Senators of the 119th Congress about advancing his legislative agenda: a massive border security package, extending his 2017 tax cuts, and dispensing with the debt ceiling.\
After more than an hour of wrangling over strategy, Senator Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia, tried to wrap things up, according to one of the GOP senators present. \'93Sir,\'94 she told Trump, \'93I want to respect your time and get you out of here so you can move on to your other commitments.\'94 Trump raised his eyebrows and interjected. \'93I have no other commitments,\'94 he said. \'93This is my legacy.\'94 The Jan. 8 meeting lasted nearly another hour.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 \strokec0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs19\fsmilli9756 \cf2 \cb4 \strokec2 President-elect Donald Trump speaks to the press following a meeting with Senate Republicans at the U.S. Capitol Building in Washington, D.C., on Jan. 8, 2025.
\fs18 \cf7 \strokec7 Valerie Plesch\'97Bloomberg/Getty Images
\fs19\fsmilli9756 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs25\fsmilli12750 \cf2 \cb1 Despite Trump\'92s visions of enhanced executive authority, it was a recognition that his success will rest on the cooperation\'97or capitulation\'97of others. Even before his inauguration, he has been racking up wins. When Israel and Hamas announced a ceasefire after 15 months of war, Israeli officials credited Trump\'92s demand that the terror group release the hostages or else \'93all hell will break loose.\'94 As President Biden warned in his farewell address of an\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://time.com/7207389/joe-biden-farewell-address-warnings-tech-industrial-complex-dark-money/"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \strokec6 ultra-wealthy oligarchy}}\'a0taking shape, the corporate titans he was referencing were cozying up to Trump in unsubtle\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://time.com/7205332/meta-fact-checking-community-notes/"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \strokec6 displays}}\'a0of anticipatory obedience. Congressional Republicans similarly continue to bend to his will\'97whether it\'92s the few House members who threatened to derail Mike Johnson\'92s reelection for Speaker of the House, or the key Senator who expressed doubts about former Fox News host Pete Hegseth as Defense Secretary. Ultimately, they all backed down. \'93The way he went to bat for Mike Johnson and cracked down on dissenters sent a message to me and a lot of others to back off,\'94 says a Republican Senator close to Trump. \'93Don\'92t ruin this.\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs32 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 \strokec0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs19\fsmilli9756 \cf2 \cb4 \strokec2 Susie Wiles, Donald Trump's top campaign adviser who will serve as White House Chief of Staff, at a rally in Wildwood, N.J., on May 11, 2024.
\fs18 \cf7 \strokec7 Doug Mills\'97The New York Times/Redux
\fs19\fsmilli9756 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs25\fsmilli12750 \cf2 \cb1 As Trump\'92s Cabinet picks were sending shockwaves through Washington late last month, Wiles laid out a theory of her boss's unorthodox appointments in a call with senior transition staff: \'93{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://time.com/7014448/rfk-campaign-trump-endorsement/"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \strokec6 RFK}}\'a0is going to be a disruptor,\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://time.com/7177802/elon-musk-donald-trump-2024-election/"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \strokec6 Elon Musk}}\'a0is going to be a disruptor.\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://time.com/7199186/meet-kash-patel-donald-trump-nomination-for-fbi-director/"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \strokec6 Kash Patel}}\'a0is going to be a disruptor.\'94 One of Trump\'92s biggest regrets of his first term, he told TIME in April, was the people he hired who tried to block his most norm-shattering, and in some cases dangerous, ideas. But now he\'92s been elected on an unambiguous promise to wage war on the institutions of government and deliver sweeping transformations. His Cabinet nominees, Wiles told her underlings, according to two sources familiar with the call, were chosen to deliver on that promise. \'93He wants people that can disrupt alongside him.\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs25\fsmilli12750 \cf2 Read More
\f2\b0 :\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://time.com/7207806/trump-second-inauguration-oath-of-office/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f4\i \cf6 \strokec6 Donald Trump\'92s Disruption Is Back}}\
To critics, Trump\'92s nominations reflect another impulse: to install obedient, often inexperienced, acolytes who will acquiesce to his demands to turn the government into an instrument for his own self-interest. In some instances, Trump\'92s antagonists see an explicit quid pro quo. In exchange for Kennedy endorsing Trump last summer, says Lisa Gilbert, co-president of the progressive government watchdog Public Citizen, Trump picked the vaccine critic to lead the Department of Health and Human Services. In exchange for Musk donating $250 million to his campaign, she alleges, Trump rewarded the billionaire whose businesses hold various U.S. government contracts with his own commission tasked with shrinking the size of government. \'93There is no clearer instance of a direct tit-for-tat interaction,\'94 says Gilbert.\
Beyond Trump\'92s Cabinet and inner circle, the administration expects to harness an array of outside groups, social media influencers, and right-wing media personalities to shape narratives and apply pressure on Republicans who might obstruct the Trump agenda. They were already deployed in full force to squash any GOP squeamishness on Hegseth, who Trump wants to lead the Pentagon despite questions about his experience, his views, and accusations leveled against him of alcohol abuse and sexual assault that he\'92s denied. When Iowa Sen. Joni Ernst, a veteran up for re-election in two years, expressed reservation about Hegseth, who has said women should not serve in combat,\'a0 she drew an onslaught of social media harassment, revved up by the likes of Steve Bannon and Gaetz, now an anchor for the pro-Trump One America News Network. \'93How do I make it stop?\'94 Ernst asked one of her fellow Republican senators, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss private conversations. \'93She toe-dipped in her opposition,\'94 the
\f1\b \'a0
\f2\b0 GOP senator tells TIME, \'93and felt the immediate backlash.\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs25\fsmilli12750 \cf2 Another source familiar with the matter tells TIME that a Trump ally informed Ernst that the President would support a primary challenge against her in Iowa\'97where Trump won the caucuses last year by roughly 30 points\'97if she blocked Hegseth.
\f1\b \'a0
\f2\b0 At the same time, Musk quietly back-channeled a message to Senators, according to two sources familiar with the matter: anyone who votes against Trump\'92s Cabinet secretaries will face a multi-million dollar Musk-funded Super PAC to oust them from office in their next primary. Ernst ultimately signaled she would back Hegseth.\
\'93That's the reality that all these members live in the next couple years here,\'94 says a source close to Trump. \'93They all get in line at the end of the day.\'94\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 There\'92s still always\'a0
\f2\b0 the potential for trouble in a MAGA paradise. There are competing factions within Trump\'92s orbit with their own agendas. Some of that has already spilled into public view, such as Bannon\'92s tussle with Musk over H1B visas, through which U.S. companies, including Musk\'92s, import skilled workers from other countries. To Trump, the argument is part of the fun\'97and his decision-making process. \'93He doesn\'92t mind the squabble,\'94 says a Trump aide. \'93He likes to see the conversation hash out and see where the conversation online lives and where the base is on things.\'94\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 \strokec0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs19\fsmilli9756 \cf2 \cb4 \strokec2 Elon Musk with President-elect Donald Trump at SpaceX Starbase in Boca Chica, Texas, on Nov. 19, 2024.\'a0
\fs18 \cf7 \strokec7 Brandon Bell\'97Pool/AP
\fs19\fsmilli9756 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs25\fsmilli12750 \cf2 \cb1 In the end, Trump sided with the SpaceX founder over whether the H-1B program was worth continuing. Trump, after all, uses them at his clubs and hotels. Plus Musk has more than $300 billion. Bannon does not. But over the coming years, such
\f1\b \'a0
\f2\b0 quarrels may serve as a barometer for which voices in his ear will have the most influence, and the extent to which Trump remains sensitive to public pushback. Trump aides say he is more intent than he was in his first term on remaking the federal bureaucracy, and less concerned with appeasing those who might stand in his way.\'a0 \'93His risk tolerance is higher,\'94 says a senior Trump official.\
\pard\pardeftab720\qc\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs25\fsmilli12750 \cf2 For everything Trump may be able to accomplish without the help of the legislature, every President aims to sign major, far-reaching pieces of legislation. Trump\'92s checklist in Congress will be passing a border security bill and making his tax cuts permanent. There\'92s also the debt ceiling, which Congress must agree to either raise or eliminate entirely. In public and in private, Trump says he would prefer to pass his border security measures and raise the debt ceiling in one package, whereas some leading members of Congress insist on doing them separately. On some level, it\'92s a simple process argument, but it\'92s also a test of how Trump will handle resistance from his own party after becoming accustomed to their subservience over the course of his march to power.\'a0\
Perhaps most of all, it may reveal whether Trump, ten years into his life as a politician, has learned that most Washington of lessons: sometimes you need to lose a few fights to win a bigger one.
\f1\b \'a0
\f2\b0 Toward the end of his Jan. 8 meeting with the Republican Senators, he pushed hard for one bill but, by the end, eventually relented that he could accept either method. All that really matters, he said, was that it gets done. \'93I\'92ll sign one bill, I\'92ll sign two bills. I\'92ll sign 10 bills,\'94 he said. \'93Whatever it takes.\'94\
}